New page to document the IP allowlist (#17359)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/account_management/org_settings/ip_allowlist.md

---
title: IP Allowlist
kind: documentation
---

{{< callout url="/help/" header="Get Started with IP Allowlist" >}}
The IP allowlist feature is available for enterprise-level customers only. Request access by contacting support.
{{< /callout >}}

## Overview

The IP allowlist controls which networks can be used to access your data in Datadog. By limiting allowed networks, you can protect your resources from data exfiltration and insider threats.

> When the IP allowlist is enabled, only IP addresses or CIDR ranges in the allowlist can access the Datadog API and UI. 

Reviewer: Is there a way for users to verify to if they are enabled for IP allowlist or not? If so, it would be nice to mention that in this section.

### Blocked and allowed resources

If a user's IP is not contained in the IP allowlist, they are effectively blocked from accessing and using:

- Datadog’s web UI
- Datadog’s public [API][1], including both documented and unpublished endpoints
- Datadog’s mobile apps (iOS, Android)
- Third-party applications that access Datadog through OAuth

The IP allowlist feature does not block access to the following:
- Data ingest endpoints to which the Agent sends data, such as metrics, traces, and logs

> - The [Validate API key][2] endpoint, which is often used by data ingestion

Reviewer 2: link here is wrong -> points to the IP allowlist page

Reviewer 2: should probably link here: https://docs.datadoghq.com/api/latest/authentication/#validate-api-key

> - The [Validate API key][2] endpoint, which is often used by data ingestion

Reviewer 2: "which is often used by data ingestion"

I might word differently, something like "which is used internally by Datadog Agents before submitting data". As written, it kind of sounds like it's used by Datadog's server-side ingestion system.

Reviewer 3: Yeah this is not a major use, so can also consider removing that line completely (since it's kind of covered by the first data ingest line)

- [Public dashboards][3]

### Functionality

Only users with the **Org Management** permission can configure the IP allowlist.

With the IP allowlist API or UI, you can:
- Check the status of the IP allowlist. Whether the IP allowlist is on or off determines whether your organization is restricting requests by IP address allowlist membership.
- Turn the IP allowlist on and off.
- Show the IP addresses (as CIDR ranges) that are covered by your IP allowlist.
- Add IP addresses (IPv4 or IPv6) or CIDR ranges to the IP allowlist with an optional note.
- Edit the note for an IP address already in the IP allowlist.
- Delete a single entry from the IP allowlist.
- Replace the whole IP allowlist with new entries (only available through the API).

> ## Managing the IP allowlist in the UI

Reviewer: Could we consider including screenshots/gif (in addition to written instructions) on how customers can manage IP Allowlist? I think it would be a more user friendly experience

Author: Hi! I agree that screenshots make the page much more user-friendly. We do limit screenshots because the UI changes so often that they create a maintenance problem for the docs team.

The bigger issue here is that I do not have access to an org where I can take a screenshot. I don't have org_management in org2. Do you know of a screenshot I can use or who could take one for me?

Reviewer 2: I just invited you to an org in us1 called "IP Allowlist Test" which we use for allowlist testing. We could probably populate it with some representative/fake data.

Note: it can be a pain because several of us use it for testing so sometimes we get locked out. Please disable the allowlist when you aren't actively testing.

Reviewer 3: @urseberry I took 2 screenshots to add to the docs!

List of IPs, belongs somewhere at the top: https://a.cl.ly/xQuROLXE 
Modal to add IP, belongs in the add IPs section: https://a.cl.ly/eDurnPYr

> To find the [IP allowlist UI][4]:

Reviewer 2: Is it worth (re-)mentioning that you'll get a 404 Not Found the feature hasn't been enabled for your Datadog org?

Reviewer: I think it would be good to explicitly state that the UI can be accessed only after being enabled for IP allowlist.

1. Navigate to **Organization Settings** from your account menu.
1. Under **Access**, select **IP Allowlist**.

The IP allowlist table lists the CIDR ranges contained in the IP allowlist.

### Enable and disable the IP allowlist

A banner at the top of the page shows the enabled or disabled status of the IP allowlist. It also shows your IP and whether that IP is in the allowlist.

To toggle the IP allowlist status, click the **Enable** or **Disable** button.

### Add IP addresses or CIDR ranges

1. Click the **Add IP** button at the top right of the page. 
1. Enter a valid IP address or CIDR range.
1. Optionally, add a note, for example, to remind yourself why you are allowing access to or blocking certain addresses.
1. Click **Confirm**.

### Edit IP addresses or CIDR ranges

1. In the IP allowlist table, hover over the row you wish to edit. 
1. Click the pencil (**Edit**) icon. 
1. Change the descriptive **Note** text.
1. Click **Confirm**.

> ### Delete IP addresses or CIDR ranges

Reviewer: Is it worth mentioning about lockout prevention here?

- you cannot delete the IP allowlist entry that your current IP belongs to
- at least 1 entry should be in allowlist

Author: I decided to add a section on lockout prevention above, in the overview.

---
title: IP Allowlist
kind: documentation
---

{{< callout url="/help/" header="Get Started with IP Allowlist" >}}
The IP allowlist feature is available for enterprise-level customers only. Request access by contacting support.
{{< /callout >}}

## Overview

The IP allowlist grants control over which networks can be used to access your data in Datadog. By limiting allowed networks, you can protect your resources from data exfiltration and insider threats.

When the IP allowlist is enabled, only IP addresses or CIDR ranges in the allowlist can access the Datadog API and UI. 

### Blocked and allowed resources

> The IP allowlist blocks access to specific resources if the user’s IP is not contained in the allowlist. 
> 
> The blocked resources include:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If a user's IP is not contained in the IP allowlist, they are effectively blocked from accessing and using:

```

- Datadog’s web UI
- Datadog’s public [API][1], including both documented and unpublished endpoints
- Datadog’s mobile apps (iOS, Android)
- Third-party applications that access Datadog through OAuth

The IP allowlist feature does not block access to the following:
- Data ingest endpoints to which the Agent sends data, such as metrics, traces, and logs
- The [Validate API key][2] endpoint, which is often used by data ingestion
- [Public dashboards][3]

### Functionality

> The IP allowlist supports the following capabilities through both the API and the UI:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
With the IP allowlist API or UI, you can:
```

> - Checking the status of the IP allowlist. Whether the IP allowlist is on or off determines whether your organization is restricting requests by IP address allowlist membership.
> - Toggling the IP allowlist on and off.
> - Showing the IP addresses (as CIDR ranges) that are covered by your IP allowlist.
> - Adding IP addresses (IPv4 or IPv6) or CIDR ranges to the IP allowlist with an optional note.
> - Editing the note for an IP address already in the IP allowlist.
> - Deleting a single entry from the IP allowlist.
> - Wholly replacing the IP allowlist with new entries (only available through the API).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Check the status of the IP allowlist. Whether the IP allowlist is on or off determines whether your organization is restricting requests by IP address allowlist membership.
- Turn the IP allowlist on and off.
- Show the IP addresses (as CIDR ranges) that are covered by your IP allowlist.
- Add IP addresses (IPv4 or IPv6) or CIDR ranges to the IP allowlist with an optional note.
- Edit the note for an IP address already in the IP allowlist.
- Delete a single entry from the IP allowlist.
- Replace the whole IP allowlist with new entries (only available through the API).
```

> ## Navigation

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Managing the IP allowlist in the UI
```

To find the [IP allowlist UI][4]:

1. Navigate to **Organization Settings** from your account menu.
1. Under **Access**, select **IP Allowlist**.

> In a table in the center of the page, the IP allowlist UI lists the CIDR ranges contained in the IP allowlist.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The IP allowlist table lists the CIDR ranges contained in the IP allowlist.
```

### Enable and disable the IP allowlist

A banner at the top of the page shows the enabled or disabled status of the IP allowlist. It also shows your IP and whether that IP is in the allowlist.

To toggle the IP allowlist status, click the **Enable** or **Disable** button.

> ### Add IP address or CIDR range

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Add IP addresses or CIDR ranges
```

> 1. Click the **Add IP** button at the top right of the page. A dialog box appears.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Click the **Add IP** button at the top right of the page. 
```

1. Enter a valid IP address or CIDR range.

> 1. Optionally, add a note.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Optionally, add a note, for example, to remind yourself why you are allowing access to or blocking certain addresses.
```

1. Click **Confirm**.

> ### Edit IP address or CIDR range

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Edit IP addresses or CIDR ranges
```

> 1. In the IP allowlist table, hover over the row you wish to edit. An action tray appears on the right.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. In the IP allowlist table, hover over the row you wish to edit. 
```

> 1. Click the pencil (**Edit**) icon. A dialog box appears.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Click the pencil (**Edit**) icon. 
```

1. Change the descriptive **Note** text.
1. Click **Confirm**.

> ### Delete IP address or CIDR range

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Delete IP addresses or CIDR ranges
```

> 1. In the IP allowlist table, hover over the row you wish to delete. An action tray appears on the right.
> 1. Click the trash can (**Delete**) icon. The action tray updates to ask **Are you sure?**

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. In the IP allowlist table, hover over the row you wish to delete. 
1. Click the trash can (**Delete**) icon and confirm you want to delete it. 
```

> 1. Click **Delete**. The page refreshes.
> 1. An alert pops up informing you that the CIDR range was successfully deleted.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

> ## API

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Managing the IP allowlist with the API
```

> See the IP allowlist [public API][2].

Reviewer 4: I don't think this is the right URL for the allowlist api, is it?

## Permissions

> Only users with the **Org Management** permission can configure the IP allowlist.

Reviewer 4: This feels like something we should tell them before we describe doing things with it, maybe around line 33?
